11
histogram
The most common graph of the distribution of a quantitative variable. This type of graph is usually favored for larger data sets.
distribution
Tells us what values a variable takes and how often it takes each value.
outlier
Any individual observation in any graph of data that falls outside the overall pattern of the graph.
overall pattern
Description of a distribution that takes into account the center, variability, and shape of a histogram or stemplot.
center
The midpoint of a distribution. This is often used as a means of helping to describe the overall pattern of a histogram or stemplot.
variability
The range of a distribution, from its lowest value to its highest value, ignoring any outliers. This is often used as a means of helping to describe the overall pattern of a histogram or stemplot.
shape
The visual pattern of the distribution, such as symmetric or skewed. This is often used as a means of helping to describe the overall pattern of a histogram or stemplot.
symmetric
When both the right and left sides of a graph of a distribution are mirror images of each other.
right&#150;skewed
Description given to a distribution when the right side of the histogram &#40;the side containing the half of the observations with larger values&#41; extends much farther out than the left side.
left&#150;skewed
Description given to a distribution when the left side of the histogram &#40;the side containing the half of the observations with smaller values&#41; extends much farther out than the right side.
stemplot
A graphical display of a quantitative variable, usually favored for smaller data sets, in which each observation is separated into a stem consisting of all but the final &#40;rightmost&#41; digit and a leaf &#40;the final digit&#41;. The stems are placed in a vertical column with the smallest at the top, a vertical line is drawn to the right of this column, and each leaf is placed to the right of its corresponding stem, in increasing order out from the stem.
